Supposed to be Angelina
Alicia Noedel: She's running late. Hi, how are you today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Excellent, thanks for being flexible. Sometimes, this will work in your favor to sometime, you're going to be on some drama will be like
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, it worked out because, uh, like I said, My, my, my boyfriend goes to work, you know, at like one o'clock, so it's perfect.
Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, cool. Um, let's prop me up somewhere, but so pile of books or nightstand bookcase somewhere where you don't have to actually be holding the device.
Alicia Noedel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take your time, no rush. While you're doing that all open up a note.
Okay.
Alicia Noedel: Let's see.
Alicia Noedel: Camera sideways. Okay.
Alicia Noedel: Looks like
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, that's great.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is
Gwenevere Abriel: Just our first time meeting. That's not the psychosocial
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, I think so.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's great. So we get to slow
Down.
Very cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let's just start from the outside in. Let's just do a check in with is your environment that you're in right now is it pretty chill, or is there like chaos and uncertainty like really close in your life.
Alicia Noedel: Oh no, everything is pretty stable right now. Nice.
Alicia Noedel: Nice convenient. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Were you were you the unstable one in the storyline.
No.
Alicia Noedel: Completely
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: In the past, what felt like it was like chaotic and uncertain in the past.
Alicia Noedel: I didn't have a lot of stability as a childhood. There wasn't a lot of structure.
Alicia Noedel: My parents weren't really involved in school stuff.
Alicia Noedel: I got myself ready and I did a lot of independent things for myself as a child. So I didn't really have a schedule a routine, anything like that.
Alicia Noedel: I mean things pretty hard so
Gwenevere Abriel: Psychology offers a word for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we're just talking. So I don't know if it applies, but
Gwenevere Abriel: It's called parental education. It's where we as parents put undue burden on a kid emotionally to like start talking about like I might talk about my my marriage or
Gwenevere Abriel: my sex life or like like totally inappropriate like you shouldn't be telling me this, you know, we put that burden on our kids and they have to bathe themselves. They have to cook for other children and
Gwenevere Abriel: That can carry on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Without generations. Yeah. And, but it can also linger where it never gets repaired and you're stuck in a position of still taking care of a parent, emotionally, even though maybe you're not doing it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're smiling, like, yes, it's true.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah I that's been my whole. My parents used to
Alicia Noedel: Like my dad and my mom both used to talk to me about things that, you know, now would be considered crazy to tell a child, you know, like, um, they would tell me about like
Alicia Noedel: All of the abuse that they suffered as kids and like really horrible things that happened to them. And ever since a young age. My dad. Basically, I was like his counselor.
Yeah, so that's problematic, right there. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So right now, let me just get because the more I get to know you. I'll be able to sort of say, okay, I can rely on this piece of stability. I don't have to check in on this domain, very often. So the person that you're with right now. I'm trying to remember is this a fiance.
Alicia Noedel: Yes, we're engaged.
Gwenevere Abriel: His family history. Um, did he get enough love and attention is there abuse history in his family of origin.
Alicia Noedel: Um, he didn't have any kind of physical abuse or drug abuse with his parents or anything.
Alicia Noedel: But they had like more of a psychological warfare household to where his mother was manipulative and she would
Alicia Noedel: Just do things to manipulate the whole house, apparently, and
Alicia Noedel: Just
Alicia Noedel: Like doing horrible things like making him feel self conscious about himself and his way and then like putting locks on the fridge and the cabinets and just like really you know that he left. He got kicked out his mother kicked him out when he was about 13 or 14 years old.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just a baby. What is that
Alicia Noedel: And he's been on his own, you know, couch surfing since pretty much since we met, and then we met and we, you know, did it together.
Yep. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Gives me some context of maybe down the line when I maybe start to hear about some
Gwenevere Abriel: Disagreements that you to have all kind of have that history in the back of my mind that you both have been burdened, way, way, way, way, way too early with responsibilities.
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't have a chance to sort of incrementally, you know, be a little defiant and to, you know, break the rules a little bit here and there. You know how we're supposed to it 13 and 12 and 16 and then
Gwenevere Abriel: Nope, can't do that. Okay, fine, but we get to slowly learn individuation we get to test out our, our problem solving skills and
Gwenevere Abriel: You and You both were throwdown it way too fast.
Alicia Noedel: Well, I had to like I honestly had to learn myself how to be a normal person, because I never ever had a normal life ever as a child. It was not normal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. So one of the first things and then make this may feel like it's coming out of nowhere but i i say no no time to waste. I like you guys to have this
Gwenevere Abriel: Skill immediately. So I, I just, I want to teach you something that if you already know it, then we'll review it. But if you don't know it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pretty handy to have
Gwenevere Abriel: So I've changed what I'm calling it I was calling it a box breathing before and
Alicia Noedel: I've heard of it before but
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's diet dramatic reading
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I would like to do with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is I'm going to talk about the science, a talk about the Vegas nerve and then I want to show you how to do it and it will do it together.
Gwenevere Abriel: But we'll do it together by bringing up will make it real time really see you know if it works. Okay, so we'll do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it is yours forever. It doesn't require insurance doesn't require anybody to be there to tell you how to do it. It's yours forever.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's great to teach your own children. It's great to teach your sweethearts, it's great to practice if we already have.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like a meditative practice or a prayer or we have something where we're already doing this spiritual cognitive piece and now it can be also doing this somatic body work.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's super handy to have and it's good as a sort of a baseline meditative practice, but it's really good for when we're like freaked out.
Alicia Noedel: Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to talk to you about the science of it first. And that's what's really cool because in a lot of psychology
Gwenevere Abriel: It's like, well, do I have to believe in this nonsense. For it to work and the fun fact about what I'm talking about now is you don't have to believe it. You can think. It's who we are.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it'll still work. So since it's biology. You know what I mean.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not all it's not all in your head.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I'm going to teach today and I'm calling it belly breathing, because it's the one part about this this belly of yours, that's going to go for like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you can't compromise, you've got to be able to have that part happen. I'm going to tell you about
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, sort of mindfully breathing and having it go in top of the long and down to the bottom. And I'll talk about that the account needs to be for count. Inhale, and I'll go into all of that. But honestly, if you forget all of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's fine, you do the belly breath part as long as the belly is expanding and it's super uncomfortable to do if you're not used to it. It feels really weird because over the years. I mean, we were babies we did and you can picture your little baby knows little belly goes like this.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see, so cute. Oh, I just love it. You
Alicia Noedel: Know, oh my god.
Alicia Noedel: Oh my god.
Gwenevere Abriel: We stopped doing that we stopped maybe for vanity. I don't even know why we stopped doing it. I gotta figure that out. Maybe I could include that in a little spiel.
But
Gwenevere Abriel: We stopped and now we do the short little tight breaths up here and we see our we see our shoulders move, you can tell when someone's taking a breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: What we're going to do today is different. This is going back to that intuitive for us that as an infant, we had and we knew. Everything's fine. I'm busy. Just doing my breathing thing. Everything's good.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to go back to that and it's going to help us self regulate. So the science behind it is this in our body. We have what's called a Vegas nerve.
Gwenevere Abriel: It, it's called the wandering nerve for a reason. It attaches to all kinds of stuff all over the place. Just to our eyes to our facial muscles to this little your bone sunny that attached at larynx pairings to our heart to our lungs to our stomach spleen kidney, all that good stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, but the diaphragm right kind of cuts the body in half.
Gwenevere Abriel: becomes relevant when we start talking about doing this belly breath. So the mechanism of action is this when you breathe in the top of the long, all the way down to the bottom, it pushes that diaphragm down
Gwenevere Abriel: Right and smashes the organs down below it. Well, what's neat is that nerve is wrapped around all those organs that are down on the bottom.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it pushes on them and activates a signal and the signal comes from the bottom, way down there and it goes up to the brain and the message that it sends is
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey, we must be okay because Look at us. We're doing this kind of belly breathing business. And I sure know that we couldn't do it.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's in complete contradiction to our perceived thought of threat. So we're doing this belly breathing. Right, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the message that goes up to the brain is oh, we're fine. This body is fine because Look at us. We're doing this big belly breathing business.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there's no way we'd be doing. And if there really was someone holding a knife in the room. There's no way we would be breathing like this. So who's right. Is it this perceived threat up here or is it this
Gwenevere Abriel: This body but you keep doing the breathing and the message keeps going up to the thought of perceived threat or maybe it's a memory. Maybe it's unconscious, whatever, but it's sending it up and it keeps sending it up and it's like
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I guess we're fine. I guess we get to have relaxed muscles. I guess we get to have the return of the blood for the large muscle groups to the different parts of the brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's biology, that is the parasympathetic nervous system counter balancing the sympathetic nervous system, which she recognizes the fight or flight up here, right. That's the book.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's a threat response. And we're going to immediately. We're going to protect our body. I think it's the same thing that happens when someone insults us or starts to look like they're abandoning us. It's the same perceived threat. It's danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it doesn't mean that someone's wielding a knife. It can be rejection or abandonment can feel just as terrifying. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's the perceived threat, but when you do this activation of the parasympathetic nervous system. I'm doing this little hand motion because it's like a break.
Gwenevere Abriel: It puts a break on this activation. It says we're okay. Look at us for breathing. Breathing like this and it sends a signal over and over world. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's other ways to do that break. And that's actually through social medicine Nestor, you and I, talking and looking at each other really registering really subtle little changes in effect and listening to prosody of tone, but I'll talk about that another time. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You've heard about the biology of it. It's a full belly smooches that diaphragm down and then those organs at the bottom go, Oh, we're good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we're good. Okay. Okay. Can we can relax our body now. So that's biology now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Adding pieces of fidelity to it and fidelity has to do with in here. I'm going to teach you. So right way to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And you're going to want to follow the rules and you're going to try really hard. That would be you trying to follow the practice with fidelity right to do it. Just the way you're being instructed and I encourage you to do it because some other cool things are about to happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the truth is to forget on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't matter. As long as you get that little belly expanding. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's both cool things happen when you do it with fidelity and it's also don't get too hung up on being perfect. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, but first I want you to see if you can have an experiential in vivo benefit from it. So just now.
Gwenevere Abriel: You touched just for a moment on some of your history, you had an image, maybe of
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe being told that stuff that somewhere you kind of knew why am I hearing all this stuff for my dad. This seems like it belongs with someone else. I don't know what to do it all the stuff on her sleeve cross all your problems.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe it was that one. Or maybe you had just now right having to take care of yourself. Get ready for school and all that.
Alicia Noedel: Anytime we talk about anything like that. It's kind of like, not just a memory. It actually feels like I'm being transported back into that exact moment and I can see through my eyes at that age, what's going on around me like it's so vivid
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'll put a pin in teaching you the belly breathing for a second and just telling you what I think is going on right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Again, back to science, but it's neuroscience, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Our hippocampus is the one that stores all our, our memories. It chooses massive capacity chicks holds all kinds of cool stuff in it. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And maybe you weren't even thinking about these things until I pulled it out of you. And I said, let's talk about them, you're like I was fine until I talked to this lady and I got to think about a dog on it right but they were they're
Alicia Noedel: Great.
Gwenevere Abriel: They were there, what we did was we brought it up the elevator into working memory, we can only have in working memory, a couple sentences worth maybe of information. It can be information about an emotion. It can be an actual image like you could picture your little self being there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think you got some pictures, but it sounds like you've also got an emotional experience of it too that's connected to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it feels as if it's happening now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep, that I'm about to explain as far as what neuroscience has taught me this is what we, we can see what we can see about the HIPAA campuses. At the time of when those incidents happen to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body was flooding with cortisol, which is the stress response and we need them. We're only supposed to have it in short verse we go we slay the bear. So we're on the hero. Can we drive at home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or not it's a mess.
Gwenevere Abriel: I did all the hard work. I killed a. You got it. So, um, but it's only supposed to be out for a little bit, super important to have. It's fantastic, but the hippocampus is covered
Gwenevere Abriel: With cortisol receptors.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why, like why, like, Hmm, I don't know why that one but it messes with our memory. So let's say you're just flooded with all the time stress response that hippocampus is covered with those receptors. It's corrupting the memories.
Gwenevere Abriel: And one really important way that it messes with the memory, he doesn't get a proper timestamp.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was supposed to be set in 1990. It was supposed to be set in 1980 and hold your so but
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't get stamped
Gwenevere Abriel: So every time we pull up into working memory or we're triggered by a site by a smell my a sound bite by a statement, we're reliving it in the moment is if it's happening right now. All right. Does that make sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so it's neat that we can name the science that's going on. It can feel empowering and hopefully it can give some hope.
Gwenevere Abriel: That if we know how it's occurring. We can undo it and maybe we can have that memory stay in the past that we can have some distance from it. We can chit chat about it but it stays over here and we aren't
Gwenevere Abriel: wiped out by it and hijacked by the intensity of reflecting on that memory. So a lot of other things are happening. But the big piece about what you just said is it feels like it's right now that made me think maybe I could talk to you a little bit about that part.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so some of the work that I'll invite you to be doing with the is
Gwenevere Abriel: Taking that memory up and I'll say, Okay, I want you to hold the WORST piece of that. You don't even have to tell me what it is you just pull it up. Of course, you can if you want to but you pull it up and you'll be reprocessing that memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will be doing some kind of fun and cool techniques to reprocess it so that your relationship with that neural network with where that little those neurons. Got all wrapped up in that memory, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: They change. Maybe they have new positive imagery connected to them, maybe in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: In the presence of someone over time you'll learn to trust me, and the social medicine will be at work, you will be experiencing it but without the helplessness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will be experiencing it with someone who's here for you. And every time we pull up a memory. We're changing it. You just changed it just now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really in a very, very small way, what we monitor we modify. So when we're monitoring that we pull it up like, oh, it's like up
Gwenevere Abriel: We're modifying it even the slightest little bit. And that's exciting. That's optimistic to think, okay, I can do this. I won't always be flooded with all the intensity of my past intruding into my present
Gwenevere Abriel: You with me so far.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah yeah cuz there's some things that, like, I still, you know, if I talk about or think about it, you know, it gets me a little emotional and then there's other things that I feel like I've kind of like dealt with to where they don't affect me as much
Gwenevere Abriel: That's cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go back to
Gwenevere Abriel: The belly breathing purchase a second
Gwenevere Abriel: Pop quiz.
Gwenevere Abriel: Another test.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you haven't, remember one thing about the belly breathing. What's the one thing can't compromise on, we've got to do this one piece.
Alicia Noedel: You have to do the belly breathing.
Alicia Noedel: Right.
Alicia Noedel: You don't remember. Yeah, the science behind it, or how long for
Hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: So now I'm going to, I'm going to teach it to you. We're going to do it together.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't have to do it right now. I'm just going to be teaching it. But if you want to go for it.
Alicia Noedel: You. I've been kind of like doing it this whole time. I don't like seeing if I can
Do
Gwenevere Abriel: It. Yeah. So first, exactly. We'll start with the hardest part because I'm from that camp. Let's get the hard part done first hardest part is getting these hands that are on my stomach to move and not my shoulders.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you've already been doing it right. So as I inhale through my nose and I'm aware that this, this is going to be expanding like a balloon. It's going to push out
Gwenevere Abriel: And my hands are going to come out on the inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: But look, my shoulder, stay for I was
Gwenevere Abriel: And now I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: City. Can you feel the difference. It's inhaling and that air is pushing the air into the balloon. Can you feel that
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you've already done the hardest part.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me give the full instructions. So it's going to be like this. And again, over time, you can do it however you want to.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the basic instruction is this, we're going to mindfully. The breathing in through the nose paying attention to the cool air the warm air every little bit we can to get in this moment grounded in our body.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to feel it coming in cool warm, whatever. It's going to go in and I'm gonna feel that that belly expand. I'm going to be doing that for four seconds, so it'd be like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I'm going to hold the breath for 4321 and
Gwenevere Abriel: Then hold the breath for four seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can't do it. That's fine. Again, doesn't really matter. And then, of course, we'll go back to the inhale and holes, you'll see me doing this when we're actually doing it together. I'll hold 321
Gwenevere Abriel: I can do my extra little longer than I can. Anything else, kinda like Nextel nice and long.
Gwenevere Abriel: But my holding out only really, I only really want to do it for like two seconds. But while I'm teaching it. We'll do it. We'll do it the right way.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're going to find your own groove that works for you. So the inhale through the nose for for hold your breath for for the exhale for four seconds. Hold that breath out for four seconds. Then inhale through the nose and expanding the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's do it together and
Gwenevere Abriel: He can turn. It's a lovely ceiling. I think it's fantastic event, maybe needs a little cleaning, but
Gwenevere Abriel: I just clean my in the bathroom. So now I'm thinking about things.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, I want to see more of your body and less of your home.
Gwenevere Abriel: There we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I can see a little bit of the of the sort of that lower part maybe moving here and there, hope.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um, we're gonna
Gwenevere Abriel: You're ready. You're going to do this nice autumn exhale just better
Yeah, totally.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So that I can hear when that exhales out and then we can kind of against just do a really obvious exhale
Exhale, all the air.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice and Now inhale through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 exhale out.
Gwenevere Abriel: NICE IF I CAN ALL yourself. Good, good, good. Hold 321 inhale belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good hold 321 push all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 inhale through the nose. There we go. There it is good and hold 321 exhale out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice BlackBerry. Get rid of all that air all that get rid of it good and hold 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Bring their into their belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good, good, good, good. Hold 321 as hell it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 exhale
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 inhale through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold good 321 exhale it all out. And I'm going to stop talking and you're going to keep the county inside your head.
Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to count quietly on your own. Keep doing it. But this time on your own without my help.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now I want you to notice internally what's going on. What is your mind to. What is your body do, what are you noticing.
Alicia Noedel: Oh stillness.
Alicia Noedel: Right.
Alicia Noedel: Kind of like euphoria euphoric in a way
Alicia Noedel: My body feels relax.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's science, you could have fun in the beginning, this is a bunch of yoga nonsense and I don't want, I came here for some cognitive behavioral work and this woman's off her rocker
Gwenevere Abriel: I hey I'm ready to hear it. I'm ready to hear it because this is stuff that right in formal training, they don't train this when you go to school, my own talk about this stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: But there was a real limitation to what was happening with my client population because most of you guys are so much trauma. History
Gwenevere Abriel: Not only developmental trauma, which is what you were just talking about. But on top of that, there's shock trauma those big T traumas ones were were assaulted or we get in car accidents, too. So there's like so much to carry this particular technique.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tells the body you're in a relaxed body. You are not in danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: The brain and one that got activated that little bit of memory that came up was saying yes you are, you're, you're, you're in danger, danger, danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: We need to worry. We need to worry about the future. We got to think about the past. And what about now. Now isn't so great. Let's look at our heart, our heart is racing or or we're reading really fast and people identify as having a panic attack like that's how they'll say it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what this does is it does a lot of cool things. It regulates
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body gets it all nice and calm and that blood gets to go up here. Now it gets to go to the prefrontal cortex where before it was in large muscle groups. It was in the size
Gwenevere Abriel: And now it gets to go to the fingertips. Now they're not cold and numb anymore. We can. We've got blended our toes, and it's also making its way up here where we need it to remember other cool things like
Gwenevere Abriel: Planning and thinking, Hmm, this really isn't as bad as I thought a second ago, actually. No, I'm fine. We want access to the cool things. Maybe you're going to learn in here, you might have
Gwenevere Abriel: Some new techniques that you learn in or personally or you might have a mantra that you really, really fall in love with and you'll be able to remember it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're going to need time to remember it, because the speed with which that body responds right gets you activated it moves lightning speed long before it gets up here and you can remember some cool stuff. So we need time that breath gives you the time you need
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's probably going to come before everything if you can remember that one thing all the other stuff will come in, you'll remember them will come online or frontal lobe will come online where Migdal a habit hijacking us before. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and look what you did. You've got to feel calm, even though just seconds ago minutes go
Gwenevere Abriel: There was all that remembering this other stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, yeah. If you forget
Gwenevere Abriel: Going to check on your baby or anything.
Alicia Noedel: I need to get my phone charger real quick.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, cuz my phone just said it was dying. So I gotta hurry.
Alicia Noedel: Maybe can you bring me my charger.
Alicia Noedel: The last one.
Alicia Noedel: I don't know if you heard me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I heard you just great wish I were there and manatee. I got a nice long one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not that long though.
Alicia Noedel: From Florida. DO YOU MAKE NEW TO NEW MEXICO might be a little too short.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a high demand that got you might be asking, just a little too much.
Alicia Noedel: I'm sure itself.
Alicia Noedel: Okay.
Alicia Noedel: Ah, sorry. Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whoa, hey, you have no idea. I get concussions. I would say about three times a day, you're going to drop me on my head. You are gonna you're gonna like not keep me charged, you can do all kinds of things.
Today,
I don't take it personally.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: He's learned something really important you've learned
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body's hopefully get this, that it's on your side.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body was on your side, your mind was on your side when it got activated got anxious got nervous and it notice that something was often wrong and scary and bad it was on your side then to protect you. It also has it's a self healing system.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's what we're tapping into right now. Okay. And also we can also, this was a bottom up activity, which means we're working at the body and we're telling the brain. Hey, I've got something to contribute here. It's not just you. So you think it's always about you. What about us. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look, I have a space or buying takes up at this part, it's all, it's all, it's all about you. Okay, well we acknowledged the rest of our body has some wisdom to
Gwenevere Abriel: But the other thing we can do is we can do top down. So with with this ability we get to maybe have a positive self talk or reframe, we might say our mantra.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see if we can get to one that works for you and it's different for everyone.
Gwenevere Abriel: But there's a common theme that often happens with people with we take a layer off we dig a little deeper. Take another layer off. Take another layer. Let's get to the real truth of it, so I won't be surprised if it's very similar to what a lot of people come to
Gwenevere Abriel: See if you can answer this question.
Gwenevere Abriel: What is true about you that you were born with that has nothing to do with your performance has nothing to do with whether you made breakfast made money went to school got up at all slept in has nothing to do with performance. What is true about you.
Alicia Noedel: I'm still a person
Gwenevere Abriel: And yeah, I'm a person.
Alicia Noedel: Nobody's perfect. Everybody
Alicia Noedel: Has their days.
Gwenevere Abriel: Person. So you went the opposite would be
Alicia Noedel: I'm not a robot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Yeah. Okay, so I'm, I'm a human.
Gwenevere Abriel: But is there anything
Gwenevere Abriel: That there's a touch more spirituality to touch more that you're not just not a robot. You're also a huge or anything that we can add to that. I'm a person. So I am
Gwenevere Abriel: What I'm born with this. I was born. See if you can finish that sentence. I was born, despite how people treated you. That's very different
Alicia Noedel: And how you very loving okay very loving. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am loving
Alicia Noedel: Empathetic yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: We want it short and sweet. So I like the I like the I'm loving, is it also true.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because loving is a verb outward. Right. It's like I'm loving this person I am pathetic. I care about this other it's other it's this verb outward
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you also born lovable.
Alicia Noedel: I don't. I mean, I think so.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I only care about what you think. So if it's true, but you're going to know if you say it. So, see what happens and check in with your body to because it might register. This is holy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cow like it. So make sure you check in with you okay and see what happens if you say this out loud.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was born lovable.
Gwenevere Abriel: And see, see where that lands. When you say that statement out loud. Just give it a try. When you're ready,
Alicia Noedel: I was born lovable.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That seems true
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can see the difference between I wasn't treated
Gwenevere Abriel: in a loving way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. It doesn't matter.
Gwenevere Abriel: And not in not in this discussion. I was still born lovable. I am lovable.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just hold on to that for just a second, because that might be something we could work with in the future in general.
Gwenevere Abriel: In your day to day life, you're just kind of doing your thing, interacting with people texting calling TV interacting doing once a situation that tends to activate some of those memories that we just, we just kind of pulled up
Gwenevere Abriel: Remind you of, kind of a crummy start in life, what what triggers that
Alicia Noedel: The winter.
Alicia Noedel: The cold. I remember, like, you know, having a jacket. A lot of the times during the winter. I had like really thin little sweater.
Alicia Noedel: And so like the cold always like of the breeze on my face.
Alicia Noedel: So I remember I would take a shower in the morning and walk to school. And by the time I got to school, my hair would be like frozen. Yeah. And so like the wind of like the winter like snow Enos, I can just feel it reminds me of it. I'm looking at my daughter.
Alicia Noedel: And wanting to, you know, give her something better.
Alicia Noedel: And just like remembering things that happened to me and like thinking, you know, I don't want her to go through that. Okay, or whatever, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: And almost right now there's is present, the intensity
Alicia Noedel: Looks
Gwenevere Abriel: Some of its present right now.
Alicia Noedel: And it's very intense for me. Yeah, it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is an opportunity
Gwenevere Abriel: For you to use a couple of things just first time we're meeting. Okay. That first one doesn't count. That was just a bunch of questions, but this is really the first time you and I are really making contact. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you meet those moments, what I invite you to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is to do the breathing and when you do the breathing include
Gwenevere Abriel: I am lovable.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was born this way and see what happens.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that'll be our first behavior experiment.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to come back and you'll tell me what happened. I have some hypotheses. But we won't really know until you go out into the world and you do it right, I welcome all of it. There's no way to do being a client wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can't do your part wrong meaning.
Gwenevere Abriel: That mantra. I forgot that one or I forgot to do both. La Roche asked me to do this, that's fine too. There's no way you can do what you're doing wrong. It's just impossible. You're just it's impossible.
Gwenevere Abriel: It will work in your favor better if you do these little experiments in it will move it along.
Gwenevere Abriel: But either way, it's still going to inform our next step. If it's forgotten. Okay, let's look at that. Oh, I did it. And it worked. Some of the time. Oh, let's look at that. It's all what's called grist for the mill. It's all interesting and relevant to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I got nauseous. I want to know I grind my teeth. I started doing it worse. He started having nightmares. Boy, I started
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't have dreams before
Gwenevere Abriel: Like so irritable.
Gwenevere Abriel: With people, whatever it is that comes up. I want to know. It's all interesting and relevant
Gwenevere Abriel: So no sort of editing there. I'm interested. There's no way
Gwenevere Abriel: You just can't get it wrong. Okay, the part you could rob yourself of treatment. However, if you try to please me
Gwenevere Abriel: If there's that there, which a lot of people do. They're like, I know what she wants to hear my see what she's up to shoot a little angles, try and sneak around
Gwenevere Abriel: On my so smart I'm smart to I'll show her all leader to it. If you do that,
Gwenevere Abriel: That's interesting. I'll probably notice it. And that's okay. But you might be robbing yourself of an opportunity of healing. You don't have to look good. Here you can be a mess.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can be a hot mess. And I'm going to be here. I'm going to show up and I'm going to do my best to do my job. You don't have to do mine. You just do you okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And I want you to come away from this treatment with all the skills that I have if I could cram them all into 60 minutes I give them to you, but it takes time, and some of them are experiential which means there. But this kind of slow Groove thing that
Gwenevere Abriel: You can't. You can't just say here go think this go do this, there lived truth and they'll, they'll take some time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do a little check in here. Um, what was today like for you. What are you going to come away with today that's important for you, even if there was something that that occurred to you or an experience that is important to you.
Alicia Noedel: Oh, I'm for this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah today.
Alicia Noedel: I think that, that'll help a lot with the breathing exercises.
Alicia Noedel: Just because I I start to get overwhelmed. Just in everyday life, things like so. I mean, I am willing to try anything to
Alicia Noedel: Just kind of not be so scared to live my life.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, that's right. I mean, I want that for you to be in any given moment to have
Gwenevere Abriel: Access to all the resources that the rest of us have. I don't want you to be limited.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, yeah. And so we're putting two things together, you probably sounds like you probably remember the breathing. That sounds like it the cognitive part if it turns out that I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm lovable isn't the mantra. That's going to stick for you and pay attention to what is true.
Alicia Noedel: Maybe I could play around and think to myself, you know, because it's one of those things where it's like, oh, you know, I've never really thought of that before.
You know,
Alicia Noedel: I just feel like when you have so many like problems with like people telling you that you know
Alicia Noedel: No one loves you, you're this, you're that you know from being an abusive relationship you stop giving yourself compliments and so when someone asks you, what's great about you. It's kind of hard to think about that, you know, so maybe I'll find one that fits better. Yep. Before we talk again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Absolutely. Oh, I love it. Make it deeply personal and sometimes
Alicia Noedel: We get
Gwenevere Abriel: Where we want to go by rejecting this one. Oh, that one stunk Yu Shu food that was pretty close. Hey, that was a new still not quite right. So by process of elimination. So we're starting with I was born lovable that might not be the one where you settle into this notion of I'm. Oh, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: This in this moment. So you have a breathing that saying I'm okay. And what I want is also the top the brain going
Alicia Noedel: I'm okay, I need a lot more of that.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah. So you've been having a lot of anxiety lately.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to schedule another appointment with you.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And when you have anxiety how you identify anxiety. Pay attention to hide. You know, it is my heart's beating
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm crying. I have worrying about the future. Look at my mind it's the same science team one over there it is again.
Gwenevere Abriel: All of it. I'm interested, bring it in here. You can journal. And if you want to you can always have time in your life, that kind of thing you could send me an email with a whole bunch of thoughts. It's going to inform us and move us along the more I understand what's going on with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: We originally had
Time.
Alicia Noedel: You know, there's one for 745 this coming week
Gwenevere Abriel: Really
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: When I put that
Alicia Noedel: Eight o'clock, what you said to clock in at 730 or 745 I think it might be March nine, go see because I have my little book to
Gwenevere Abriel: March 9 is in the morning. Oh my gosh.
Alicia Noedel: We got the right date.
Gwenevere Abriel: We totally have it figured out already. Yes, it's next Monday. Oh, that's great because
Gwenevere Abriel: It's real nice quick
Alicia Noedel: Turnaround
Gwenevere Abriel: Will meet and then yes, it's at eight o'clock, which
Gwenevere Abriel: Means you log in a little bit before
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we'll have this nice long period of time. I have a group at nine someone right before you, but I should be able to have that whole full piece will sit there and we'll take a look at whether you remember to do the the belly breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And if you were able to come
Gwenevere Abriel: Up positive mantra for yourself.
Alicia Noedel: Okay affirmation. So yeah, for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's gotta be. It's gotta be
Gwenevere Abriel: Real short really short because if you won't remember that fancy
Alicia Noedel: Stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, just remember the little guys like I'm lovable, or I'm enough. That's usually a big one for people
Alicia Noedel: Oh yeah, that's that right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the one.
Alicia Noedel: So please, please, please.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if that one lands like
Gwenevere Abriel: I slept in. I'm still enough
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't get this done. I made a mistake I piss someone off. I was short tempered. I was impatient with my baby.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm enough again and again and again and linking that with a relaxed body putting the
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Alicia Noedel: Putting those got me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, putting those two things together, we get to be different in this one vessel that we have. We get to live our moments in a different way. And that's exciting.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'm psyched. We already have something worked out. And so, which is your group just remind me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thursday. Good. So I get to see you again. I get to see you tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, great. I will see you tomorrow. And if you want to, sometimes more often than not, I'll say in group, I'll say, Hey, does anybody have anything they want to brag about.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're more than welcome say, Yeah, I do. I did this breathing business and it was fantastic. I thought it was stupid. And I like it. Or he just, you don't have a New York accent but
Gwenevere Abriel: You know that's what those are for their for, like, I want to I want publicly to say I'm doing it. I want to say it to
Gwenevere Abriel: All y'all. Maybe you'll be giving someone
Gwenevere Abriel: Else some some encouragement and that way. But it's also, it's also a time say I'm really struggling with something
Gwenevere Abriel: I really do mean it when I say, does anybody want to talk about something. They're filling concerned about or anything they're feeling excited about. So I see you this Thursday. And then after that I get see on Monday.
Alicia Noedel: Okay. Good. All right.
Alicia Noedel: Do I have to go to bed. No.
Gwenevere Abriel: No. Oh, I don't know you. If you didn't do it before, then go for it.
Okay.
Alicia Noedel: Have a great day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'll see you tomorrow.
Alicia Noedel: Thank you for everything.
Gwenevere Abriel: So cold over there.
Tomas Valdez: I'm not a little bit. Yeah, I mean, she's calling my apartment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: How's your tummy.
Tomas Valdez: hurts really bad right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, no.
Tomas Valdez: Problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: So kind of bring me up to speed. I feel like there's been a fair amount of distance and time somehow from us kind of meeting on a regular basis. So I feel a little bit like that, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Has anything gotten worse better on the family front, has there been more contact with Brother, or father or like
Tomas Valdez: No, no, no, I've just been spending a lot of time with my mom since since my grandma passed and she's having a really hard time so I'm just making it a point to go spend time with her and make sure she's not alone.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it was her mom. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: With a tight.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, she's lived with my mom for the past five and a half years. My mom's been taken care of her. Well, me and my mom. Yeah but yeah but but we've been living with my mom. So yeah, my mom's been basically take care of her like hadn't foot. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I know how close you were to her.
Yeah.
Tomas Valdez: Homer.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was she ill over this last bit. And so there's been this awareness.
Tomas Valdez: Know, she was, she was old, she was 98 years old.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so there was a right. I'm on more time here, kind of thing.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, he just she's had like a like a stroke, out of nowhere and then it turned into pneumonia.
Tomas Valdez: Don't know much other stuff so
Yeah.
Tomas Valdez: I don't know.
Tomas Valdez: But I was the first time I'd ever seen anybody like watched somebody die like like
Tomas Valdez: Watch them like take their like last breaths and everything like that. I was kind of, I wish I wouldn't have. Well, I wish I wouldn't have been there for that.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you saw that
Tomas Valdez: That's interesting. The whole thing I was if the entire thing. I wouldn't from everybody being hopeful because it was all of her numbers were climbing and the doctor was like oh my god like she's gonna
Tomas Valdez: Like it was kind of messed up like the doctors kind of put like a false hope and everybody like Oh, like, it looks like she's gonna pull off a miracle. And then I'm going to none and know
Tomas Valdez: It because their numbers were like climbing, like all of a sudden, and like her blood pressure was stabilizing her her
Tomas Valdez: Heart rate was climbing like everything stabilizing and then. So I started telling that to my mom, I think that kind of gave her a really false open so she was really lead. Now, it didn't happen you know
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're meeting with her like kind of swinging by the House like unannounced or they're scheduled visits. How is it. Oh.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, I mean, because I'm since I'm taking Spanish right now and I'm going over there and having her helped me, you know, and even though I can do it myself. But I'm having her just helped me, you know, I mean, just so she can feel
Tomas Valdez: Useful, basically, you know, I mean, I thought, that's a big thing with her. She's, she's constantly been busy her entire life. So for her to be stagnant at any point in her life is just the worst thing on earth for her.
Tomas Valdez: Like, I guarantee that's that's half of it with my man, obviously, her mother passing is a huge part of it, but being stagnant for her is. Oh, like that's like earth shattering for my mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: To be busy busy busy busy busy.
Tomas Valdez: She's been used to taking care of my autistic sister her my entire life. And then she passed, and then I got her from my motorcycle accident.
Tomas Valdez: And then, but in but she got sick. And then she got sick because of kidding worried from that so she had to take her to go take care of herself and then take care of my grandma now. And yeah, it's just constantly been her. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: But for you tomorrow when you get to spend time with her. How is it feeling for you to be around her just on your side of it.
Tomas Valdez: I'm gonna
Tomas Valdez: I'm so damn guilty doing this and suck. Like, I went on. But I asked her to print something up for me. And she did. She's been snapping a lot me like since that since I am a passionate Muslim snapping a lot at me.
Tomas Valdez: And I finally, I was just like, stop, stop, snapping at me. I'm like, I'm the old adage, if you're not, if you haven't noticed on the only one that's here for you right now.
Tomas Valdez: I'm the only one here, and the only one that cares. Mom, I'm here for. I'm here for you. Like I 100% sympathize for you, but it's not okay for you to yell at me and treat me like this is not okay.
Tomas Valdez: I don't, please like quit. Please quit, yo. Yeah, I mean, treat me bad, like I'm here for you. I'm treating nice
Tomas Valdez: And she and she apologized. She's like, I know she's like I because she like she walked in the other day, like I was just sit there. Do you have a homework and she walked in the other day.
Tomas Valdez: Because they took a little bit longer time to make the pizza that actually offered and stopping you know get pizza whatever for the study for the same time.
Tomas Valdez: And it took longer than then, you know, then they then they said, and she walked in, she through the pizza at me like, literally, like through that me
Tomas Valdez: And I was like, whoa. I'm like, What the hell, and then so she apologized for that. And then you start yelling at me again. So, yeah. So then I was just then I kind of felt I had to tell her to stop it and I don't know. And I felt really bad about it but
Tomas Valdez: I know what she's going through right now so i don't i don't know i got i don't know if i was in the right for telling her to stop doing that or not.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why don't you tell me
Tomas Valdez: Well, like I felt like
Tomas Valdez: I felt like it insensitive jerk kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's come at it from a different angle. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, if you had said it a little differently. Instead of the behavior request up front.
Gwenevere Abriel: When she tell me if you use the structure of I feel when she tell me
Gwenevere Abriel: How you were feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: When she was snapping in you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel so pretend I'm her for a second.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah.
I feel
Tomas Valdez: See if you can identify
Gwenevere Abriel: One word see what that one word. If you were forced to pick one.
Tomas Valdez: That's a tough word that's
Tomas Valdez: You know it's it's not offended.
Tomas Valdez: But I mean, in a way it is, it's not it's not offend. It's not betrayed, it's, I don't know. This is a hard word to find
Gwenevere Abriel: Go, nice and slow. We've just eliminated. So there's a bit of like
Gwenevere Abriel: To it.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, kind of. It's like I'm like i've been i've
Tomas Valdez: Not only been
Gwenevere Abriel: Trying for us.
Tomas Valdez: Since it happened, but I've been I was the only one now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just see if you can keep working at feeling words you can get to it.
Tomas Valdez: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just for real amount. So try them on, say, Mom, I feel blank. When you keeps being short tempered with me. So mom I feel blank. When you like
Tomas Valdez: Mom, I feel like I don't want to be around you.
Tomas Valdez: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: This is tricky. Yeah, you said like so you know you went into storytelling there so that third word can't be that and it can't be like
Tomas Valdez: Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: To great
And
Tomas Valdez: You're again with it. I'm
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, like be true betrayed, I guess, I don't know, like not not purchase. Now it's it's not be trail. I don't know what the word is. It's like
Tomas Valdez: I don't know what would be the words. It's like I'm I'm here for you but you're yelling at me like you're like what I don't know that word would be
Gwenevere Abriel: Like tell us. Let's come from a different place.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's come at it more from from the body wants you to picture what was going on in the home when she was doing that you were coming there because you kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Register. She likes to be helpful. I can, I can review my Spanish. It's like I could be doing both. And you get to be with your mom to you were sacrificing something for her right trying to picture how the body feels even thinking about this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here I am trying to be of service you're snapping at me.
Sure.
Tomas Valdez: I felt shocked. I feel sad. I felt
Tomas Valdez: just dumbfounded curious like I just, I couldn't. I was I was trying to put to get her thought process in my head, and I couldn't do it. No, it was bugging me
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so here. Interesting. So here's what we've got, try these on. So it'd be something like, Mom, I'm surprised and sad that you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of being short with me and impatient or you through that we were better off if you don't even interpret the behavior but you through the pizza me
Gwenevere Abriel: See if that feels true try it on so fine, mom, what do you say
Tomas Valdez: I'm
Tomas Valdez: asking you is
Tomas Valdez: I feel, Oh, I feel
Tomas Valdez: I feel upset that you do the pizza at me and
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let's be more precise.
Tomas Valdez: I know I'm trying, I'm trying to think of that word I'm trying to
Gwenevere Abriel: And how about confused.
Tomas Valdez: Yes, that would be yes. There you go. I'm
Tomas Valdez: Trying to do 100% computers. I was done about it exactly dumbfounded. Like I just, I couldn't understand it. My Brother Mike my brain couldn't process what was going on. Right. It's really using me
Gwenevere Abriel: They don't match up. I'm doing something nice. I'm getting negative behavior. It's confusing.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, exactly. Like I my brain couldn't put the two and two together, it's like, wow, I'm like, I'm
Tomas Valdez: Like I'm putting aside my own plans tying everything because I want to go here and try to make help my mom make her feel better and help her feel better, cuz I don't like I don't like for her to feel bad and she is, you know, no.
Tomas Valdez: He means he
Gwenevere Abriel: Asked you to come over to take care of her.
Tomas Valdez: Know,
Tomas Valdez: She knows she knows what I'm doing, though she 100% knows what I'm doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: How do you know that, but she didn't know why she was thinking snippy. How do you know that part.
Tomas Valdez: Well, now she's kind of acknowledged it, I think, and
Tomas Valdez: I just I just, I've been around my mom for 37 years I know how I know what my mom likes. You know what I mean, I know that my mom loves be busy. I know I'm on love is being
Tomas Valdez: Felt like she's useful and being helpful to the situation, you know, I mean, and that's I know that's what like that's what she feeds off of
Tomas Valdez: So I know going in and getting that help from her in Spanish. I know that really helps take her mind off of everything that's all I know. I know for those for those for that hour and a half, two hours that we're working on that.
Tomas Valdez: My grandma is not even in her mind and that makes me feel good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you didn't feel confident about your interpretation around her short temper.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you can analyze that that didn't make any sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: To you.
Tomas Valdez: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that because you've never seen your mom be short tempered
Tomas Valdez: It's been very rare. Yeah. Like, it's very rare. I've seen my mom short tempered in my life.
Tomas Valdez: I shoot shoot like she wasn't this banker. My dad was this banker, you know, I mean, she was like, I like my raise your voice at you at the very worst way to your day get so
Gwenevere Abriel: So your in your life. There's been like a handful of times. She's been impatient.
Tomas Valdez: No, I mean, of course, everybody gets impatient, but it's it's a very uncommon thing for her.
Tomas Valdez: She's an extremely patient person right so that's what was really shocking to me is that how patient. I know she has an outpatient I know she can be
Tomas Valdez: And that she couldn't have that like it's like she lost patience with me. Like, I tried to help her. And she's like losing patience with me. I'm like, I don't get that like you. You are one was patient person on Earth. And I'm helping you and Lucy Asians. Let me get this
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so tell me you were
Gwenevere Abriel: I wanted. I know it seems really silly how precise I'm getting into this. But what were you doing like right at that moment where she lost it. What were you doing when you said you were helping her like
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you remember what you did. Right before she maybe was snippy
Tomas Valdez: Hey mom was going just greeter was it
Gwenevere Abriel: And she did what
Tomas Valdez: She walked in the in the duck.
Tomas Valdez: Just do the pizza box at me. I'm like, Whoa, shit, am I showing up at me, but like, how come he will kind of me. Like I wouldn't like duck or dodge. But yeah, flew like right in between the laptop and me and landed on the and landed on the on the table. I was like, Whoa, shit.
Gwenevere Abriel: She didn't want to order the pizza.
Tomas Valdez: No, I did. I did. She but she she called she asked me to call to call in. So it would be ready for when she got there.
Tomas Valdez: And so I did, I call it, I call them 15 minutes ahead but they must it up and they gave they gave away our pizza to somebody else and then may to the pizzas in front of ours, while she was sitting there waiting and then she kind of just lost her patients, which is good for her.
Tomas Valdez: I mean, obviously I would get upset, too.
But
Gwenevere Abriel: Throwing it someone is really
Over the top
Tomas Valdez: Okay, I mean,
Tomas Valdez: No, but she even recognize it and this this second time now that yesterday that I went over there, me and I, and when I finally told her you know that, please just stop it.
Tomas Valdez: She's like, You know, I'm sorry. And then she recognized the whole pizza throwing things that, you know, sorry for that I was totally. I'm sorry. Another that
Tomas Valdez: She's like, but I'm not being that way with you right now. I'm not being that way with you right now. I'm like, Yes, you are. I'm like,
Tomas Valdez: I would I be saying anything if if you weren't I came over here in peace. I came over here to pick up a piece of paper and believe. And you're sitting here going off on me, like, what's that
Tomas Valdez: And
Tomas Valdez: I'm like, and I like I was like, Mom, like, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Like, I understand you're under a lot of stress.
Tomas Valdez: And I totally sympathize with you and I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. What happened, obviously, like I feel bad, too.
Tomas Valdez: But that doesn't make it okay for you that way towards me like I'm like, I love you to death. I'm here for you. Obviously I'm obviously here for you. But please don't act that way towards me. That's all I said
Tomas Valdez: That's exactly how I said it. I didn't. But then, and then I came home and I felt like a complete douche bag for even bringing it up like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: did when you said it just like that. Did you How did she respond to me just hear what she said.
Tomas Valdez: She lost your breath for a second. And that's how I knew that really affected or that and that's what in my heart just my heart just sunk into my stomach and I felt like a piece of junk and I knew that. I knew that Herder not Herbie yeah I'm sorry to Tierra sorry
Tomas Valdez: Um, I noticed that, and I know it hurt or so, it hurt me.
Tomas Valdez: So,
Tomas Valdez: That sucked. And I came home and I felt really guilty about it.
Tomas Valdez: Sorry taxing I'm sorry edited a
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: She's going through a once, maybe twice in a lifetime experience right of losing a parent like this. Maybe she hasn't already lost another sort of cared, or this is a really rare exceptional time
Tomas Valdez: Yeah.
Tomas Valdez: In that yeah and that's why I felt that maybe I was like, damn it, I was like, maybe I was callous about it and not understanding about it as as much as I should have been
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, what I don't know about you is whether you are familiar with other ways to hold space for someone. So for example, we can use me for
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm the recipient of a lot of emotions. I am sometimes the recipient of anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can hold that. And I have to just hold it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't say, How dare you. I'm here to help you. Right. I
Gwenevere Abriel: But there that takes a skill.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think we'll keep it out here with me for a second. What do you think that I have that makes it possible for me to hold someone being really like I'm straight up rude to me like I mean you haven't probably seen it too much, but I'm the recipient of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: How do I have, do you think that makes it possible for me to
Gwenevere Abriel: Tolerate it sit with it, not get confused or
Tomas Valdez: Say, stop it. Patience.
I have patience.
Tomas Valdez: Patience and
Tomas Valdez: I don't know, probably feeling that
Tomas Valdez: You don't want to sing to their level maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Sync to their level. Hmm, okay.
All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think I believe about myself that makes that possible to remain like this just sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: Still with my posture open sort of saying, Tell me more. You know that being the posture. What do you think I believe about myself.
Tomas Valdez: You're confident about yourself, probably
Gwenevere Abriel: In what I believe what
Tomas Valdez: Just that you know I'm
Tomas Valdez: Not everybody's right that I'm
Tomas Valdez: Like
Tomas Valdez: I should I lost my train of thought.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's easy to do. This is pretty complicated, so it will help if you actually look at me. So I want you to look at me. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let's say you were angry and
Gwenevere Abriel: You needed me to just sort of keep it together over here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, what I need to believe in myself in order to hold space for you.
Tomas Valdez: If I was, if I'm angry at you.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do I need to do to basically take care of you, but I like the whole space better. I'd rather phrase it like that. What do I need to believe in myself. I know I show up confident
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Tomas Valdez: Be careful and selective about the words that you use, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I'm
Tomas Valdez: Using word
Gwenevere Abriel: What's going on about what I believe about me around someone who's being hostile. What do I believe about me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hard some really hard thing to get to
Tomas Valdez: Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, watch, watch the opposite.
Tomas Valdez: Let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: What happens when I do this, you know, you need to knock it off and show me some respect. I'm doing nothing but coming in here and being helpful. Stop.
Tomas Valdez: Okay, yeah, it seems, also.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so when someone's hostile. So now watch in that scenario, what do I think
Gwenevere Abriel: About myself right now I am. What do you know that one. So go the opposite and see if we can get there from here.
Tomas Valdez: I'm being abused.
Tomas Valdez: Person.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm being attacked.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, if I'm defensive and I scratched back. I'm saying, step back, no more closer
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm being attacked. I defend myself and I use words. What am I gonna do can't punch.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there we go. So now okay we got it I'm
In danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: I perceived threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, now, wait. There we go. Now let's walk it backwards. Now, note, my hands are actually open
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't talk like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now go here. Now really, see if you can find it for me to be able to do this to hold space for you if you're impatient irritable hurting sad scared, all of that. What do I need to believe in myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Try looking at me. I know it's hard because you're trying to remember words and stuff but trying to
Tomas Valdez: tether back by looking at maybe you that
Tomas Valdez: Me that this person's here trying to help me. I don't know, I just, I don't know that I don't like.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, look at me. What do you think I'm thinking right now.
Tomas Valdez: I have no idea.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at me again. Well, what do we know it's not
Tomas Valdez: I'm kind of not understanding. Like what's your, what's your what you mean. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so just that's why I'm saying for you to look at because this is actually it's not quite the role play it's it's happening right now I'm here and I'm holding space for you right now. I'm holding space for confusion because you're confused. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's it look like
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: This is what is what's your best guess. What do you think I'm thinking
Tomas Valdez: Like really, are you really coming at me like this like now. Like, seriously.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you think I'm a little impatient like surprised and impatient, a little
Tomas Valdez: You do. I kind of like, like a little bit maybe by
Like
Tomas Valdez: Oh,
Tomas Valdez: Shoot. I'm
Tomas Valdez: So wait, remember you had it before you kind of
Tomas Valdez: Why I'm trying to find the word I'm going crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's okay well number. Let's go back to the one you know, you know, right. What if if instead I was saying, You need to stop it. You knew, I'm being attacked. If I was showing up hostile and angry, probably, I'm thinking I'm being attacked. So now, real
Tomas Valdez: Quick. What do I
Tomas Valdez: Like what do I think like she was thinking when I told her that type thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: That hard, it's just you and I. Right. Although all that work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Stay here with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Hey gets really complicated. That's why I'm just saying let's just use me for now. So we know for sure if I'm here going, listen.
Gwenevere Abriel: I need you to get it together. I mean, she just say what I need. And no, we're not gonna do any of that and stop it if I do that, you already identified earlier.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm obviously feeling attacked because I'd be hostile right and I'm thinking I'm in danger, what's the opposite. If my arms are actually like this, and my tone is like this. And I'm holding space for you. What do you think
Tomas Valdez: Of your arms like this and
Tomas Valdez: What I believe about really then
Tomas Valdez: Yeah okay they're down like your, your arms are open like that then then and then
Tomas Valdez: What else do you have to say like
Gwenevere Abriel: Sugar should get the hands
Gwenevere Abriel: On. Sure. Yes, you're getting confused with the hands down. That is forget that that's throwing you off. What's the opposite of I'm in
Tomas Valdez: Danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now look at me me hands are down.
Because you got a little confused.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm safe. That's beautiful. Look at me. My hands are down.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm saying
Tomas Valdez: No, you're fine. You don't look like you don't look offended. You don't look like. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm safe. So what's changed on the outside the environment of pizza throwing and short tempered hasn't changed, but I've changed what I'm thinking.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've changed. I'm safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: This stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is not a threat to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I can do.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want that for you to us, the kind of power that comes from realizing that you're safe in any given moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to rock your world. When you get it, and you're going to know it in a deep way.
Gwenevere Abriel: You were safe with your mother to do did not feel that way.
Gwenevere Abriel: You felt attacked
Gwenevere Abriel: And utterly confused about the attack.
Tomas Valdez: No, actually I will use the word betrayed. Actually, I will use that word. That's how that's how I felt.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Tomas Valdez: That word
Tomas Valdez: Because I've tried so hard and and to be yelled at, like that. It's like
Tomas Valdez: I don't know.
Tomas Valdez: Like sad like like sadly betrayed. I guess like not hostile he betrayed, but like sad like that you would do that to me after. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you that word. No, no, no, this word. I'm glad you're kind of saying, and again, there is a huge neural network around that word huge stories, lots of them and big ones for you.
Tomas Valdez: Wrong which which word
Betrayed
Tomas Valdez: Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the one that needs to work in here between you and I. That's the one. When you can loosen that one up and you don't go there.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're, you're going to get
Gwenevere Abriel: I know, but that's because it's I think it's just sort of this this space inside of you that
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't have connections to other positive images other positive and I don't know if it's just truly organic
Gwenevere Abriel: When this developed, I don't know, but that word right there. It's amazing. If I pulled out the video. They don't keep them anymore. They used to keep them for a year.
Gwenevere Abriel: If we pull them out and we ran them through. I bet you'd save betrayed almost every time we really when we get into family stuff when we get to talking that word would get used. That's how frequently, it is weaved in inter personally like the notion of being betrayed again.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't want to love. Again, you don't wanna it's big.
Tomas Valdez: For you.
Tomas Valdez: Or you want to make friends like I'm okay being all by myself because I'm I've been you know I'm saying, like, I felt like that let down and be like, I'm okay. I used to be.
Tomas Valdez: extremely depressed about being by myself all the time. But I'm getting to the point that like I'm getting used to being by myself all the time. And I'm. To me, it's almost better than getting hurt again and we're being betrayed again or being stolen from are just some just
Tomas Valdez: It's just sucks. Like I just people suck.
Gwenevere Abriel: People they do but they're also generous and kind and affectionate and loving an interested by you, they're interested in you and they can see
Gwenevere Abriel: You us humans are a mess. We are
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're not going to be able to skip over wanting to connect with them you happen to be someone not only are you human and we're wired for those social connections, but you happen to be someone that feels it deeply
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're wanting to turn into a robot is just unreasonable, you cannot do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Tomas Valdez: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: Better off learning the skills of tolerance for that initial onset of that first zap that happens to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: That part will probably be there for a long time, but it's what you do with it after the fraction of a second after you think, oh, this could be. It's happening again. It's what you do with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right after that can make the difference of whether you stand there in that same seat stay in a conversation
Gwenevere Abriel: And not have later on reflection of man, I wish I hadn't said that
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll make all the difference. The meaning that you make out of that just stress in your body and the thought is happening again. I can't tolerate being hurt. Again, I can't
Gwenevere Abriel: It's what we do with that that makes the difference of whether someone sticks around wants to stay here with us, it's going to be about how you manage you
Gwenevere Abriel: In the end, it's going to be something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you have every right to feel good and happy in this body to not feel this sense of sadness and confusion and betrayal, you have every right to it only differences. We can't change what people are doing all we can do is change the meaning
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it true that you died from betrayal. Is it true.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or was it the meaning that you made out of somebody saying they would do something several people and he didn't do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You and I, we make different meaning of it. It is not pure and simple and absolute fact that you and I will feel the sense of betrayal. The same way I might think
Gwenevere Abriel: He had some home training. He was, he wasn't raised right. Oh, she's a nasty little critter. I don't like why I'm around him all defensive it's sarcastic. I don't like I am around her.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm gonna walk over here. I'm gonna go play with these people because I'm like, Boy, I'm they get my funny jokes. You think I'm charming. I'm going to spend time over there, Pat.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't sit here in hurting hurting hurting hurting pardon pardon pardon. Forget about the betrayal. I don't now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Plenty of people do it your way. Plenty of people do it my way. And then there's a bajillion other ways to do it. But if you don't like how you're doing it. Let's get in there, make some changes so that you can enjoy your days, enjoy your time with your mom to and not be
Gwenevere Abriel: Offended not feel betrayed.
Tomas Valdez: And that was part of what I had told her I was like, I like mom like, I'm coming over here like wanting to talk to you why in the hang out with you, like, like let's not talk to each other. This way, like I don't, I don't know. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I got you.
Tomas Valdez: But I'm just trying to figure out how to balance everything in my life. It's just
Too much
Gwenevere Abriel: It can seem like it's complicated. But actually, if you really listen I say a lot of the things the same don't, I don't, I repeat myself a lot. Do you ever noticed that
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Tomas Valdez: Because I'm trying to hammer it
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, so. So sometimes it's new. Sometimes, though,
Tomas Valdez: I mean, you
Tomas Valdez: Know I'm saying, like you just you don't you just rephrase it is what I'm saying.
Tomas Valdez: Okay, yeah. Yeah, no, you drive on the same point. I'm just saying you rephrase it.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there are some stirred particular things that people do that. Get in their own way and one of a common theme is
Gwenevere Abriel: They go to this sort of all or nothing thinking and or they use emotional reasoning bullet feeling this way, then it must be true. And it's catastrophic and I've gotta defend myself against it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It moves very fast lightning speed and if you can put time in there. You might remember a different way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me, let me just
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so sorry, kind of just put you on hold for just two seconds.
Orange.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so what just happened there was
Gwenevere Abriel: Trying to keep my eye out. I make sure
Gwenevere Abriel: There's an emergency that it's taken care of. So just now. You with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you feel a little insulted right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no.
Tomas Valdez: I'm supposed to be.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like it would have been a great opportunity. If you did, because then we could be like, see it's happening now and what are you saying yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's
Tomas Valdez: Figure you're our you have
Tomas Valdez: Your work and you have to do. I mean, I'm, I mean, I understand. I'm, I'm your client, but you're working
Tomas Valdez: okay with it. Mm hmm.
That's interesting.
Tomas Valdez: All right person.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you could have you know that right
Tomas Valdez: Yeah. But no, I like that doesn't bother. I wouldn't have bad didn't bother me at all and Louise, but
Gwenevere Abriel: Experiment didn't work.
Tomas Valdez: Oh,
Tomas Valdez: No, I was no not at all. You know, you have. That's like, that's work sometimes you don't. Sometimes you have to take a quick call and I understand how it is. I mean, I know.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what if this was your, your mother doing that to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: What attention to little differently.
Tomas Valdez: Um, no, I would have reacted the same way. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's really you can, and it's the way
Gwenevere Abriel: When people are short tempered to you and they're short with you and that pizza thing was way over the top, obviously.
Gwenevere Abriel: A switch goes off and whatever tolerance.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's almost like
Gwenevere Abriel: Gone.
Tomas Valdez: It's gone. I go, that's when I go from one of my mania, things like I go from yeah
Tomas Valdez: Right. And I'm just
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, and unleash the beast inside
Tomas Valdez: That's what
Gwenevere Abriel: I would like for you if you're willing to do the the piece about the I'm safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you're around people that you actually love when love is on the line.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it'll be really convenient if you can remember to have the thought when they are rude, they're acting in a confusing way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Vindictive hostile towards you, it would be convenient if you could remember this, but if all that you can remember to do is to say I'm safe. I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: In calm moments, that's fine, but it would be lovely. If over, days, weeks, months, you can get in the habit of remembering that because guess what
Gwenevere Abriel: You are
Gwenevere Abriel: Are physically safe it is this perception.
Gwenevere Abriel: That this little wire that's going on that this behavior that's happening right now. This pizza throwing the short temper.
Gwenevere Abriel: will last forever and
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't exactly know what the catastrophic thought is that you're having um I don't deserve it. I know that's one of them I don't deserve this. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know any more thoughts that that support the I deserve to retaliate right now. Do you know any of the other ones that are
Tomas Valdez: Connected to it.
Tomas Valdez: I'm sorry you we cut it. We had a buffering.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Gone forever.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now what I'm asking you to do is, I'm sorry. It's okay if it's any good all remember it again. So what I'm asking you to do is to say that often put it as a screensaver habit on your alarms have little stickers in different places because you get in the habit of going to that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Dead. I don't deserve this.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think you're going to like that, you're going to have more time to think something through
Gwenevere Abriel: I think you're gonna like the outcome of an interaction with someone and what I was saying earlier, and I don't know when it, when the buffering happened on the video was to
Gwenevere Abriel: Really see if you can say it to yourself when you're around people where there's love on the line, which means there's love their I love them, they love me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Dad, mom, brother, that kind of thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to be more difficult to remember. So doing it in really neutral sort of benign times is also I'm inviting you to do that. See if you can be thinking it I'm safe. I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Get in the practice of remembering it. And I wanted you to put stickies around and I wanted you to put it as a little thing on your phone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because the truth of the matter is, some time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Most of the time. So I mean, you've had some pretty crummy stories and I get that most of the time right now you look around the room. You are safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't have to be so vigilant, it does your body and disservice to have that cortisol running on your Oregon's all the time. Okay. Want that body to have a break.
Tomas Valdez: But my body like lives off cortisol. At this point, it feels like
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, but it's
It.
Tomas Valdez: Feels cortisol more than it feels go for me or serotonin.
Tomas Valdez: It's, it's
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not supposed to be flooding all the time. It's not good for the organs really bad for the hippocampus. We're supposed to have a quick flood of it when you've actually actually had actual
Gwenevere Abriel: Harm to body right you've had a fairly recently in the last six months it belong to their it floods, your real quick so that you can real quick do self preservation action and then it's supposed to leave you have it running so much
Tomas Valdez: Having a hard time turning it off.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the ways to do that. One of them is through the top down, which is what I just told you about, which is a thought changing thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Another one is bottom up, which has to do with that breathing. If you're honest with yourself and honest with me, are you doing it before you make a decision to speak.
Tomas Valdez: No, I didn't.
Gwenevere Abriel: Write
Tomas Valdez: I didn't do it.
Tomas Valdez: But if you are, whatever. Yeah.
Tomas Valdez: If I would have done a would have come out a lot differently.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's why I'm saying, and you guys want to why having me doing this when I'm not in stress because you'll remember it easier because now I do it so often.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember to do it when someone snotty with me in the supermarket when someone gives me a hard time in the mall when a family member gives me a hard time I'm going to do that before I speak. I've been doing it all day long. I'm more likely to remember to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right when I need it. And then, yeah, I'll say, I feel, or some other skill that you've learned in here with me. It'll be, oh yeah, I can remember that cool stuff. I can remember it. It's all about being able to remember it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I invite you to take it quite seriously when you wake up and you get conscious do the breathing five times a day, six times a day. Don't have to do a lot of cycles of it, but how am I feeling now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I had this thought when ugly thought it was a yucky thought and like I thought I want to feel better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Regulate the body do it again and again and again. The more you practice doing it, the more you'll be able to access it when you really need it when it's go time. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, it seems like a small thing, but
Tomas Valdez: I speak before I asked a lot, and I know I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so you're saying there's not a lot of time between the stimulus and the response.
Tomas Valdez: There's no time.
Tomas Valdez: Like it's almost. I mean there is but it's like I have my filters very tight. It's tiny. But, but
Tomas Valdez: I'll use the word tiny
Gwenevere Abriel: But Tomas I bet if I asked you just about that one story about your mom. I bet she'd been snippy for hours.
Tomas Valdez: You think I don't know. She was nice to me on the phone and
Tomas Valdez: When you got something to say just better off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you saying
Gwenevere Abriel: She hadn't been snippy four minutes at a time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Back to back minutes
Gwenevere Abriel: And this happened, and this happened. She was short.
Tomas Valdez: Um, no, I guess not know. She had, she know she has a lot of stuff going on. And she bought it, you know, I mean,
Gwenevere Abriel: So my question has to do with. Let's just see if that's true. She may have had some signs that she was impatient. Let's just call it that, for now and you tolerated it
Gwenevere Abriel: And being able to remember your ability to do that because let me tell you why I'm suspecting this because you said, I've had it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's why I'm suspecting it because you were talking about that she'd been doing back to back then and patient with you and then you'd have it.
Tomas Valdez: Well, no, it was just, I mean, it was the P O is the pizza thing and then this thing. It was no it was just me and then
Tomas Valdez: And then while we were. And then while we were actually studying she was being really short with me and just like wow, like, wow, like
Tomas Valdez: Are just like calm, calm down. Like, I understand you know Spanish. I get that. Like, I'm the one that's trying to learn it like
Tomas Valdez: I need like, give me a give me a minute to try to try to learn like I'm not learning anything but you just telling me the answer mom like, I really do need your help. And I want your help and I, I really appreciate you sitting
Tomas Valdez: Next to me. Now for me, but let me try to work on this myself and then timing.
Tomas Valdez: That's a great that's like I like I like I'm trying, I'm trying so hard to
Tomas Valdez: Ever be helpful to let her be helpful to have her, let her feel like I use. I mean like anything like if she wants to take a pair of my jeans to so I'm cool. Take them to you can do that. So you can, you know, so you can be focused on something else like
Tomas Valdez: I don't know.
Tomas Valdez: To help
Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's just go here. When did that studying, studying Spanish then pizza. Is that correct,
Gwenevere Abriel: It went
Tomas Valdez: I was already had, I had already gotten her house. I was sitting there, studying and then she just burst in the door and then all hell broke loose.
Tomas Valdez: Because before that everything was fine. We spoke on the phone, she was happy go lucky. Nice. Everything was cool. Oh, yeah. Pick order a pizza, you know,
Tomas Valdez: I'm not gonna eat any but you can you being eat so or something, you know, and I will pick it up everything was fine. So that's why I was so shocked. Yeah, I mean, like, what
Gwenevere Abriel: It was wondering when pizza studying and then something else. And when did you say stop it.
Tomas Valdez: Oh no, I said, Stop it yesterday. I didn't, I didn't, I didn't tell her to stop it did when she do the pizza at me.
Tomas Valdez: Okay, hold that when she do the peak that you can
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold that one. What did you do to put
Gwenevere Abriel: Time in between the stimulus which is the pizza throwing and your reaction. What did you do, you did something in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: To create time and space between the stimulus and the response I
Tomas Valdez: Got it. I put up my hoodie and I refused to make eye contact.
Tomas Valdez: That's what I did. I just put my I just put up my my hoodie and if she walked in the room, I would not look at her. I would just
Tomas Valdez: deadlocked on my, on my computer and just and I know she was craving for me to look at her to get that to get some sort of response and I wouldn't give it to her.
Tomas Valdez: Okay.
Tomas Valdez: So I just kept looking at my computer and I know and i and i know my her looking at me. She can read me so I know she knew what I was doing and thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Brilliant, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's way down low.
Gwenevere Abriel: Way down the line. You did something between the stimulus and the response. You did you put you had to literally
Gwenevere Abriel: Inhibit, watch, watch, you inhibited an impulse take pride in that. That's all we need to know. We just need to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, I know there was this whole con which is I know she wants I contact, I get the secondary game. But what I'm really interested is this little fraction where you inhibited an impulse that interest me
Tomas Valdez: Is because I I knew she what she's been going through and
Tomas Valdez: You know, stress sucks. And I understand how it feels to be lonely. I, I really understand how it feels to be lonely and I understand. She probably going through that really bad right now. And so I just pop up my hoodie and okay
Gwenevere Abriel: She ever really good his mom ever really going to hit you and hurt you.
Tomas Valdez: It's, it's only happened twice in my life over she's at me so
Tomas Valdez: I really yeah so
Gwenevere Abriel: And if she if she did is she really going to
Tomas Valdez: And she wouldn't know she wouldn't have me now because I have a TBI.
Tomas Valdez: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the likelihood that you were in physical danger.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Euro, but look how intensely you felt it. You had a perception of threat and we won't even get into the game, which is I'm going to withdraw something that she enjoys that's a different game. I'm just talking about your skill to have been able to inhibit an impulse Bravo. Nicely done.
Tomas Valdez: Wow, just talking about it's making me feel anxiety for some reason why
Tomas Valdez: I'm getting like my chest is feeling heavy and them wait
Until us
Gwenevere Abriel: Do the breathing right now. And I want you to hold the thought.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am safe. I am okay even with this negative memory. I'm okay. I'm safe. Even with this negative memory. This is a crummy memory, I'm safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Want you to sit back to us and freeze let that air into your tummy, you need to, what do you need to do there. What are you doing,
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, there we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me go deep into the belly. We're going to call it belly breathing. So there's no room to get it wrong. It's all about getting that Aaron is expanding as a balloon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just get that air into the bottom with along
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want you to see. Oh, yeah.
I am safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm safe. Even with this negative image.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm still okay it's my mind telling me love is on the line.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not I'm safe. That's a perception of threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you go to the body and you guys think it stays up there in the brain. You've got to feel the body being calm and relaxed the large muscle groups relaxing and you get there through that breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that there is congruency
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am safe. After all, and then there's the space of my mom can work through what she's going through. It has nothing to do with you.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, and well
Tomas Valdez: Something that's been stressing me out, too, is that my lease is up now in two months and I was really like seriously considering moving back to Phoenix. But now that now that this happened.
Tomas Valdez: I don't know what to do. I don't know. I don't know if it's okay to leave my mom here all this
Tomas Valdez: Like of all times for me to leave now like
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the way life, isn't it, it's
All
Gwenevere Abriel: So what if you knew you could get her contribution to the conversation. What if you could trust what she was saying was the truth.
Tomas Valdez: I wouldn't trust me, I know I if I asked her if I asked her, her opinion on this. I couldn't trust what she would tell me because I know, I know. Whatever. She would tell me it would be
Tomas Valdez: To be to better myself. It wouldn't be to okay what's but what's best for her as well. It would be strictly what's best for Tomas
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that's amazing. To know that that you have a mother that wants your growth that's, that's beautiful.
Gwenevere Abriel: And she also derived on a daily basis, a lot of energy and and
Gwenevere Abriel: I see from that she likes that feeling of giving she likes that.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, definitely.
Gwenevere Abriel: You taught me that in fact you're very confident about it. You wouldn't budge from there, you're like, No, I know my mom 37 years it's been this way. I know it's useful. She likes to help stay busy. That's her deal
Tomas Valdez: I've very rarely. Am I, am I live. See, my mom, he a meal.
Tomas Valdez: Very rarely extremely like I for Thanksgiving, Christmas. I've never seen my mom need meal ever she won't eat a meal, she will. She's a type that will wait for everybody to serve themselves. He
Tomas Valdez: Finish.
Tomas Valdez: She'll help do the dishes. Eventually, she's that type of person. So it's like
Tomas Valdez: Okay, I know her so well, and she's my best friend. You know what I mean. So
Tomas Valdez: That's why it's like, that's why I'm having a hard time like what do I do with because I I know the best thing for my personal like
Tomas Valdez: Professional Growth would be to move back to Phoenix. I have a lot of job opportunities and and room for growth there but
Tomas Valdez: I don't know if I want to men thing is my family is so bad at it it bugs me to leave here. Like, even though like this, places like New Mexico has been horrible. For me, it's got off of for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, I've been listening to you. It just seems like
You should
Gwenevere Abriel: You do rob yourself when you decide to do all of this interpretation. A lot of people do this, they say why no because I'm a mind reader. I'm going to not take what someone saying, and instead I'm going to read their mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you opt out of that and you say, I'm going to take people at what they do right in front of me.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you say, Mom, I'm conflicted.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to miss you. If I'm away from you. I need connection with family, there's an eye. There's also this other piece of me that I want to move to Arizona and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm afraid I'll miss you too much. But you don't get in her head.
Gwenevere Abriel: You just on your truth. Maybe we'll do maybe you'll take what she says. I mean, it's not a nice feeling to not be believed, maybe show her that honor and say,
Gwenevere Abriel: But I have this in my head I'm making up in my head that you wouldn't tell me you wanted me to stay if you did. And so I'm going to not go. And I'm going to stay here because I think you want me to mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Would you rather I stayed here and be here for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or are you going to be okay. Are you going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Your friends are you going to, can we stay connected. Can we talk because I need to go to school and get this different job and I don't like it here. You don't trust your mother is going to tell you the truth.
Tomas Valdez: No, I really don't. Not in this case, I don't. Okay, I know.
Tomas Valdez: What my mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't understand.
Tomas Valdez: I don't think I don't mean I don't know. I mean, maybe I could be wrong. I could be wrong. Also,
Gwenevere Abriel: But you've never had this moment she's never lost her mother, two months.
Tomas Valdez: Exactly. That's why I don't know how she live. Yeah, that's exactly but
Tomas Valdez: I just stemming from others situations that have happened in life.
Tomas Valdez: That have been big moments.
Gwenevere Abriel: Meaning, she puts your well being first
Tomas Valdez: She puts everybody's loving not even her kids, she puts everybody's well being before her.
Gwenevere Abriel: So she's gonna do it long after you've run out of jobs, long after you've run out of happiness. So you're not going to change her
Tomas Valdez: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Her style. So what point is it a few being here, is it that you indeed are going to be the one missing her
Tomas Valdez: Partially yeah
Tomas Valdez: Good max one. I mean, the past five years, I've been she's been my only friend, pretty much, you know, I mean like
Tomas Valdez: The only per second really good to talk to
Tomas Valdez: My brother is my bike I have, you know, like I told you my brother has been there. My dad has been here. She's been the only person I've had, you know,
Tomas Valdez: If my, you know, I've seen my see my brothers move around and you know they're best friends. They go when they go visit them.
Tomas Valdez: You know, wherever they are. I haven't had one of my friends from Phoenix come out here and visit me or, you know, or even offer. Hey, no yo cookie number to come down and say what's up. Let's go do this not you know
Tomas Valdez: And I've gotten to Phoenix, but I haven't had any friends come here and do that for me. So it makes me wonder, do I really have any friends and Phoenix.
Tomas Valdez: Or should I maybe I should just stay here. You know, I know I have so much going through my head. It's
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that's a lot at a minimum. How about you stay in your own head. I think that's a reasonable expectation. Your mother is a grown woman.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let her have her own thoughts. Let's be respectful, like it's respectful. But notice how you have your own. I'm not sure. So let's at least just for now just work on your head. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you want to do that's worth it. Once you get clear about what you want, right, then we're making a very informed choice.
Gwenevere Abriel: And yes, I've been hearing that you don't like this place and I get that. But there's a real draw right now because you see there's
Gwenevere Abriel: A sort of of tenderness this real sort of soft spot around
Gwenevere Abriel: connecting with people and you've gone out and you've tried it and it hasn't worked out. You've gone out and tried it, you know, brother, or this friend you know some things have gone sideways.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what do you just for now. You say, I want to be near my mom for a while. And until that changes. That's why I'm here.
Gwenevere Abriel: That'd be okay.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, I think so.
Gwenevere Abriel: For now, why not
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, but if it's I'm staying here sacrificing for you, mom, and you're treating me like this. That's a whole other way of staying. That's a problem.
Tomas Valdez: She wouldn't say like, I know, but I know she won't stay like this. I know she will stay like this that's that's that's that's the thing also
Tomas Valdez: I know, I know. It's this is good. Like, it's like a lot of ages, like the immediate shock.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we go if you if that pizza moment could be different if you really do practice the stuff that we did in here today.
Gwenevere Abriel: That comes flying at you. Oh, Mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, what can I do. So, such a hard day. I know it's frustrating. We have, I know you don't like my hands like this that means something else to you all trying to down but it's holding space for someone
Gwenevere Abriel: It means we don't make it about us.
Gwenevere Abriel: Her behavior, you know, deep inside and that's what time can give you is the realization that it isn't about
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, I already know you're sorry, and she has to, well, we can catch ourselves a little earlier, not have those right where there was no time between stimulus and response and you can get there. I do believe by breathing and remembering
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not an actual danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: My mom, she's going through some shit.
Gwenevere Abriel: I love her. Anyway, I know I would want this unconditional love.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mom, I can go get Chinese food. If you want, you know, it changes our position, the way we talk or tone of voice, everything changes. If we realize love is not on the line. It's not being removed from you. You're not going to be betrayed.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a perception of threat. You're not in any danger. Breathe. And remember, I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Practice back to us.
Tomas Valdez: Your moments will be
Gwenevere Abriel: On your own and you won't be moved around by other people's opinion in their short tempered notice you're going to be more in charge of your behaviors.
Tomas Valdez: Very nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can, I will. I'm not trying to sell you a car without an engine. I really do think this this is key. But it's remembering it. And, you know, remember we said, remember we got behind you did inhibit the impulse you eat, look how much time it takes
Gwenevere Abriel: That took seconds, or at least a fraction of a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: In that amount of time. Let's say you get all the way that far, you do a passive aggressive behavior, whatever we want to label it all show her it's vindictive right
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't matter, we can intervene either when we've started to do something kind of kind of retaliatory we can catch ourselves in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Trying to hurt her, like, I'm feeling hurt and I catch myself and I do the breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm perceiving
Gwenevere Abriel: That she betrayed. Oh, I hate the trail. Let me get all the way through. Let me see, what is this oil open my eyes. Oh, it's not about me. My mom's hurting, to the point that she's being mean my mom's. I mean, she must be miserable inside you can get there.
Tomas Valdez: And I kind of did breathe and relax and do that, like, well, and I just I just kept on doing my homework and just kind of just
Tomas Valdez: Okay, and then she I think then kind of like realized what was you know that what she did was she had died and she came up to me and we've always been the type to bury the hatchet very fast after any argument we that we've ever had.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Tomas Valdez: I like very fast and she came to me and she like she asked me like some like random BS question because she knew that I would respond. And I did. And then that was over, I put my head down and it was back. Fine. It was back to how we were yeah so
Tomas Valdez: You inhibited. Yeah, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do it. So we need to capitalize on that.
Tomas Valdez: A bit more often.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you can remember you had to remember there was a lot of pieces of that ahead, remember I had a hood back there. I mean, you have to remember they might seem silly, but those are fractions of a second, that that's all you need.
Gwenevere Abriel: You reach that note. Wait. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can do some stretching. Now, I won't retaliate. It won't be passive aggressive. I'm not gonna try and move her across the chest table and not gonna help. I'm just going to remember. What's that thing when said to thank
Gwenevere Abriel: I
Tomas Valdez: My initial thought to do was f this I'm putting my my computer. My backpack. I'm going home and I'm doing this shit on my, on my own. And then what it was where it was like a split second of that and then another split second. It was no
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it. Then you've got it. That's all you need. Tomorrow, so have faith you have it still indeed to inhibit you have it there. It's just being able to as soon as we can try and remember these other pieces.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, so that you can enjoy moments because they also could have been a really bonding moment with your mom and it could have been something slightly different. But now,
Gwenevere Abriel: It got a little, a little sideways, not too, too bad, but because you guys know how to repair quickly are in the habit of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But this has a bigger impact this has to do with your ability to regulate Tomas and it means that if the more time you can create right. The more you can inhibit
Gwenevere Abriel: The more you can think through, is this going to work in her personally with this person, this person and I think you want people in your life, but they're, they're not worse. And I'm not there to see what's happening. So
Gwenevere Abriel: One. Just wondering if maybe we make that little tweak right there. I don't know what the next sentence could have been any given interaction with brother with father had there been time. I am not there to see, but I am curious.
Tomas Valdez: I think things will be a lot different.
Tomas Valdez: things a lot different.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just see if we can get there more of those. Oh, screw these people and off. You want to go, but then it's like you did inhibit your first impulse and that's great news. That means you can't
Tomas Valdez: Cuz I remember thinking, I'm like, if I do that, it's going to hurt her even more like she she's already hurt. She's already down like this would be like kicking her while she's down. That's not okay.
Tomas Valdez: Okay, that's always been a big thing in my life. I don't believe in kicking the person when they're down. It really bothers me to see
Gwenevere Abriel: That that you have the capability to to have empathy, even in that moment you were able to switch the storyline and see the world from her perspective, just enough to not quit. He still went on.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you don't quite have the other piece, which might be later on. Hey mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: You okay
Gwenevere Abriel: You're acting so different right now so out of character. How can I be here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it feels good, because that's probably if you had access to those kind of words, you would have done it. But don't get there, we need time. That's what inhibiting that initial impulse. Will do. He'll be able to get there, you know,
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, I'm trying. It's
Tomas Valdez: No, I didn't really I've been never realized that I've been doing this for so for such a long time, like I've been, I think, I don't know.
Tomas Valdez: That mean. I mean, I know I've been doing this since my accident, but I don't know maybe I've been doing this since Before my accident, you know, it'd be like
Tomas Valdez: Oh,
Tomas Valdez: If you ever go I really need to sit and think things through and stop and think before I talk
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'm yeah you never know maybe right that that repair that happens so quickly with your mom. It might happen even faster.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because watch it could have been right then. Oh, Mom, what's going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know it's so fresh. Want to have some control in a moment when we have none.
Gwenevere Abriel: I get that. What can I do, do you want distraction, should we focus on Spanish shavers and Chinese food should what should, how can I help do want to just, you know, you'll have that to give you won't perceive what's going on as a threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: It seems oversimplified to mosque, but your world will change if the world is not a dangerous place to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not going to get it. I know this has to do with the inner personal just stick to that incident on the on the freeway and in this guy with the shooting thing won't go there.
Gwenevere Abriel: This has to do with interpersonal
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let's get our appointments out here and figure out a time for us to meet
Tomas Valdez: Again, all right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm glad you're exercising.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's great news too by the
Way.
Yeah. Finally, again,
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, the last time you like to gather pens helped me a lot with this, but
Tomas Valdez: I was. I didn't want to say the group, obviously, but it kind of its kind of made me like emotionally dead, is that normal
Gwenevere Abriel: Feeling kind of but you say that
Tomas Valdez: Like I like I like I'm like I'm not happy. I'm not sad. I'm just there. You know, I mean, it was weird.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tomas. Listen, let's say, just for a second. And this was dipping into a whole other big conversation so
Tomas Valdez: I don't really want to type that right
Gwenevere Abriel: But, but I just want to say this, if it's true that either organically or
Gwenevere Abriel: Or maybe there was
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe this bipolar thing is really real. Let's say it is. That's what everybody says they miss the high
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you, even though it created chaos, they miss that intensity. Everyone says it I know like I like this medicine. I don't feel as good. Well, but it meant you were gambling all your money and you're getting in fights and you lost your department, you're getting
Gwenevere Abriel: And they're like, but I miss it. So just, I wanted to quickly normalize it. Um, it's just familiar. You're just used to this super, super high thing. So it's both.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's so many things. I have no idea if that's what
Gwenevere Abriel: We're actually talking
Gwenevere Abriel: Idea. But hang on, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if we let's find out who you are. Down the line with with what's a clear away the Suboxone let's clear away, eventually, if you want to not be on the gout pit. Let's clear it all away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see who you are because it's really hard to give a proper diagnosis. When you have chemicals going on. Okay, let's see if you like.
Tomas Valdez: I love, I love myself when I'm not, I don't have chemicals in my body. I love how I feel. I love my life like and then I always screw it up because I'm like, Oh, I can do a little bit of this and I'll be fine. And then it turns into hell.
Gwenevere Abriel: But do you notice what today was about today was about. I'm learning the skill of inhibiting and impulse
Tomas Valdez: It's really
Gwenevere Abriel: Valuable. A lot of my folks kind of identify with attention deficit hyperactivity, it's the same thing. It's you get to you still get to enjoy the same stuff. It's just you're including more information, more reflection more possible scenarios of consequence get to still have fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, just less regret.
Tomas Valdez: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Tomas Valdez: All right, look so good plan.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I mean, that sounds cool, doesn't it.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, I always want the that fun parts got us started, stay there and I and out here as a consumer of your aspect you have quite a range.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't feel it but out here, happy, smiling and crying and really having so much anger. So as a consumer of you, it's, it's pretty intense. But you don't feel it that way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're used to this really why
Gwenevere Abriel: But even this what this feels like this to you, but in here, right. I see. I see a lot just happened. If you were to watch this video, like let's say next week. You say, I want to see and you can watch. And you can say, Holy shit.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've seen people like that. And then I don't know what you'll say, yeah, that would be the experiment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just it's something we could play with I've done that with a few people. We've looked at the video because they don't aren't aware of a certain speech pattern or some kind of tone. We've been able to use the convenience of the video to review. So maybe we'll do it.
Tomas Valdez: Who knows, and see if you're up for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anyway, let's pick
Up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Tomas Valdez: And we we had talked about trying the
Tomas Valdez: EDM or EDM or EMR art. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know that we have done it yet. So I don't know, maybe slightly
Gwenevere Abriel: Darker so
Gwenevere Abriel: First of all, how's your stomach feeling
Tomas Valdez: Fine. I know. Yeah. We fired
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. I am Dr. It's called
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, yeah, that's right, yeah. I think I was calling electric dance music EDM. So you guys
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let me just get a picture of some things I want to see what some possibilities are what time do you go to the gym on Saturdays and Sundays. Let me just hear what your days are for that.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, that's just whenever I can. I can be completely open for that. Okay.
And
Gwenevere Abriel: You, your stomach starts to settle by what time
Tomas Valdez: What's a
Gwenevere Abriel: Hard to tell. There's no real
Tomas Valdez: Pattern. There is no I yeah like normally like
Tomas Valdez: 1130 ish
Tomas Valdez: Yeah, like it was, it was really hard for me this morning, but I just kind of just Delve it okay I did. I don't know. I don't know. I can't. Yeah, I kinda like I had like wake up early. I get a little bit extra early to yeah I try to deal with everything and just Yeah it sucks.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, I'm gonna, I'm going to do this I'm gonna put
Gwenevere Abriel: From us. I'm going to put you on on call for next week, but I don't want to just leave it like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Tomas Valdez: You already take out of my vocabulary is sucks. I mean, you could be negative. I need would be negative.
Tomas Valdez: I've noticed that I've noticed that about myself. I'm a negative person I talked negative. And I think people feel my
Tomas Valdez: Like golf my energy off that and maybe that's why a lot of people have shied away from me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've replaced words like that that make me laugh. Instead of it sucks.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or I want to kill that guy in front of me that just cut me off.
Gwenevere Abriel: I say this is inconvenient.
Tomas Valdez: Missing convenient.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right and you laugh because it's such an understatement that it makes me laugh too. And then I'm over it, it works.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, this is
Tomas Valdez: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's an understatement. It seems to make me laugh, just like I did with you. You might try that.
Tomas Valdez: Okay, no. Yeah.
Tomas Valdez: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to do the on call thing with what you know if someone can have has to shift gears.
Gwenevere Abriel: But otherwise, I want to have the following week, some thing really in. Oh, I already have it already have one. I have 11 O'clock march 18 already written in here. So how about next week on whole try and find a space, but for sure, for sure.
Tomas Valdez: One that said set
Gwenevere Abriel: Is march 18 at 11
Tomas Valdez: Oh no. What, no. What day Wednesday.
Tomas Valdez: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was like this.
Tomas Valdez: Like this. Yeah.
Yes, on Wednesday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, because you're, you probably alternating with yeah your alternate I can see now why that one opens up sometimes if you're someone who's on bi weekly keeps flip flopping and then it opens up and then it's not there.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um, but I'm going to keep my eye out for something next week. So we can start the MTR
Tomas Valdez: Okay. Alexa, remind me on March 18 at 10am to meet with Gwen at 11
Tomas Valdez: I know
Tomas Valdez: I say 10am so I get up early externally to so I so I so I get my stomach stuff taken care of.
Tomas Valdez: And yeah, it kind of gives me. It gives me like an hour buffer to be like, Okay, you really need to get your shit like locked down and be able to deal
Tomas Valdez: It's horrible. I like it sucks. Like it's horrible, like I got like it's it stopped it's it's it's messed with me, having relationships in my life, you know, I mean, like, It's embarrassing.
Tomas Valdez: And convenient. Yeah.
Tomas Valdez: What can you do that's why
Gwenevere Abriel: I asked you to do two things. Let's see if it's stuck.
Tomas Valdez: I'm keep my schedule open for the week but PLAN ON THE 18th
Tomas Valdez: And
Tomas Valdez: Remember my box breathing in, to take before I speak.
Tomas Valdez: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's refine that call it belly breathing so you don't forget the belly and I am I
Tomas Valdez: Am okay I am safe, I'm safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: put those two things together.
Tomas Valdez: Breathing I'm safe. Safe
Gwenevere Abriel: See if time you get time and then you can go, oh boy. You know what I don't want to do. I don't want to have this big reaction.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd rather do this and brother be this other way. See if more options become available to you. Okay, be curious to see if you can. I look forward to seeing you in group and hopefully I will have an opening and I'll get to see you again for individual therapy to
Tomas Valdez: So good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there any
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there any medication contention on today alright enjoyed it.
Tomas Valdez: No, I'm good. I'll be good. Thank you. Bye.